sorry there's sirens in my background
just ignore that um how has precision
medicine come of age in the last few
years and in particular how has it been
used to treat cancer
well so you know as i said i've written
before about this i i am i i have some
sobriety about precision medicine
um and my sobriety is uh and i'll tell
you exactly what my sobriety is
um in the
1990s and early 2000s
when we sequenced um cancer genomes and
human genomes
we i think some of us um optimists
had thought that out of the genome just
by the genetic sequence and perhaps
by the understanding the
expression of genes and cancer cells
that we would
sort of the
therapies would fall out of it
um
in other words there would be a kind of
you know
you know cancer cancer is x the therapy
is why
and so forth
that has worked for some cancers
spectacularly for cancers such as
some breast cancers um
i heard the conversation about her2 and
herceptin
um
it has worked for some leukemias such as
chronic myelogenous leukemia some lung
cancers
but the so so that's that's the
optimistic part of it
the sobriety in this is that for most
cancers
um the genetic sequence of the cancer
and our understanding of you know what
the cancer expresses in terms of its
proteins
has not led thus far
to a
panoply as it were
of medicines that we can use for that
particular cancer that would solve the
problem
um and that's been a very sobering um
message because we had thought that that
would be the case
um in in the disease that i treat um uh
which is a pre-cancerous
uh syndrome called myelodysplastic
syndrome or
and also acute myelogenous leukemia you
know i can send sequencing and i can
you know i get lots of sequencing data
back
the uh the data from the sequencing from
the genome
and from the understanding of the cancer
what the cancer expresses
marginally and this is very important
only marginally affects
what i use as treatment for the for that
cancer
i'm still using
drugs that were used in the 1970s and
1980s to treat a cancer in 2021 now
that's not true for breast cancer that
is not true for some kinds of lung
cancer so there is a very vast degree of
epigenetic
in our ability to go from
information that the cancer provides
to the specific drugs that the cancer
can uh can respond to
one last point is that i'm particularly
interested in
prevention precision therapeutics so in
other words
can we
use all the various mechanisms that we
have now
scans
blood tests etc etc to prevent cancers
in their earliest stages or to catch
cancer
in their earlier stages
and thereby use precision medicine it's
almost always the case
that in advanced cancers
we've been not so lucky in in in doing
the kind of
precision medicine that we had hoped to
do
but in early cancers
we really get a lot of effect
and the real hope is to find these early
cancers using a variety of mechanisms
and eradicate them so that we can really
bring the power of precision medicine so
precision medicine is really tied with
um that it is
the detection of early cancers as much
as we can get them